+++
title = 'Inspiration.'
date = 2024-09-24T01:50:22+01:00
draft = false
+++

# Inspiration.

As I sit here at 01:05AM on a Tuesday school night, I can’t help but be overfilled with awe at the fact that I’m able to press plastic buttons on a keyboard, and have them translate into letters on my screen, which are then almost instantly zapped to some datacentre hundreds of miles away, and that whenever I decide to I can publish these very worlds to the rest of the world, for anyone to access at any time, from anywhere, as long as they know the address to my blog. We have connected almost the entire planet together through technology.

I can sit here and hear Steve Jobs talk to me about innovation, or hiring, or design, or failure, or anytime I want by just clicking a few buttons. One of the greatest minds of the century (Argue with the wall) can be presented on my screen for me to absorb as much as I can from him, and when I’ve had enough, I can learn from Aristotle, or Nietzsche, or look further into what DaVinci was working on. I’m filled with awe and gratitude. And more than just that, I’m filled with a deep desire to reciprocate this gift to the next generation. I may not be able to reinvent the internet, or the web browser, or even the device they view it on, but I want to contribute to the awe they feel about their life, just how those before me have done. I want to take hold of the torch of innovation and technology, down whatever road we are taking as a species, and help guide it in the right direction before passing it onto the next generation. Before I can pass it on however, it is crucial that I first get a firm grasp of it myself, and do good with it.

Do I have a clear idea as to how I’m going to do this? Not 100%, but I will figure it out as I move forward. What’s important is that I dare reach for the torches, risk moving into the unknown, risk burning myself, tire my hand out, instead of cosily following others into the light.

There are those who move in the middle of the pack where it is warm and safe, and then there are those who hold the torches and risk moving into the unknown and face whatever it holds. I don’t know why, but for as long as I can remember, I have seen myself as the later group, and sought out opportunities to use it. I remember as a kid I would be the one flipping over old concrete blocks we knew were filled with bugs, or be the first to try going down steep descents with dodgy brakes on my bike so my friends would feel more confident, or asking the questions nobody wanted to ask in a group setting, I remember in school I would never be satisfied with the status quo of what was being taught if it could not withstand rigorous questioning, I had to deconstruct every idea that came my way and reconstruct it on my own. I’m not saying these silly childhood things are anything of significance, after all, they are simple behaviours I’m sure a lot of kids have, but I feel they are hints towards what my being is like deep down. You may think this is not enough proof, and I would agree. That’s why I want to throw myself further into the unknown. I want to do it so much so that the unknown starts to feel more like home than home itself. That doesn’t sound healthy, and I don’t know why I want it, but I do. It feels like the only thing worth pursuing. To me true living is at the other end of comfort. It is one of my deepest and firmest beliefs that happiness is at the other end of discomfort. If you got happiness and comfort without paying a price for it upfront, the price will come with interest later down the line. I firmly believe the opposite is true too, if you actively chose to put yourself through hard things, you will have a better time down the line. I feel this idea is heavily neglected.

What is the purpose of all this? To rekindle that flame inside anyone who feels the same way. When I read Dostoyevsky’s works, his words pierce through me and touch my soul. 
Those moments make existence feel *alive*, they reassure that despite the fact that we all ultimately experience life alone, only from our individual perspective, others are or have experienced similar things, if not the same thing. We are all connected by knowledge and ideas at the end of the day. We may be isolated through space and time, but we are connected through experience and ideas. (Man, I really need to write more about Metaphysics)

If you are like me, this is written in the hopes of reassuring you that you’re not alone, and that your path is worth it.

P.S. It’s mainly to organise my own thoughts a little haha